docs/docs/api-reference.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# API Reference

jods provides a small but powerful API for state management.

## Core Functions

### `store(initialState)`

Creates a reactive store with the provided initial state.

```js
import { store } from "jods";

const counter = store({ count: 0 });
console.log(counter.count); // 0

counter.count = 1; // Updates the store
console.log(counter.count); // 1
```

### `json(store)`

Returns a deep-cloned plain JSON snapshot of the store, evaluating all computed properties.

```js
import { store, json, computed } from "jods";

const user = store({
  firstName: "John",
  lastName: "Doe",
});

// Add a computed property
user.fullName = computed(() => `${user.firstName} ${user.lastName}`);

// Get a JSON snapshot
const snapshot = json(user);
console.log(snapshot);
// { firstName: 'John', lastName: 'Doe', fullName: 'John Doe' }
```

### `onUpdate(store, callback)`

Registers a callback function that is triggered whenever the store changes.

```js
import { store, onUpdate } from "jods";

const counter = store({ count: 0 });

// Subscribe to changes
const unsubscribe = onUpdate(counter, (newState) => {
  console.log("New state:", newState);
});

counter.count = 1; // Logs: New state: { count: 1 }

// To stop listening for updates
unsubscribe();
```

### `computed(fn)`

Creates a computed property that automatically updates when its dependencies change.

```js
import { store, computed } from "jods";

const prices = store({
  items: [10, 20, 30],
});

// Add a computed property
prices.total = computed(() =>
  prices.items.reduce((sum, price) => sum + price, 0)
);

console.log(prices.total()); // 60

// Update the items
prices.items.push(40);
console.log(prices.total()); // 100
```

### `diff(oldState, newState)`

Generates a detailed diff object showing changes between two states.

```js
import { store, diff } from "jods";

const before = store({ name: "John", age: 30 });
const after = store({ name: "John", age: 31 });

const changes = diff(before, after);
console.log(changes);
// { age: { __old: 30, __new: 31 } }
```

### `history(store, options?)`

Creates a history tracker with time-travel capabilities for a store.

```js
import { store, history, json } from "jods";

const counter = store({ count: 0 });
const counterHistory = history(counter);

// Make some changes
counter.count = 1;
counter.count = 2;

// Travel back in time
counterHistory.travelTo(0);
console.log(json(counter)); // { count: 0 }

// Move forward
counterHistory.forward();
console.log(json(counter)); // { count: 1 }
```

For more details on time-travel debugging, see the [Time-Travel Debugging](/time-travel-debugging) page.

## Framework Integration

### React

```jsx
import { useJods } from "jods/react";
import { store } from "jods";

// Create a store
const counter = store({ count: 0 });

function Counter() {
  // Hook into the store
  const state = useJods(counter);

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Count: {state.count}</p>
      <button onClick={() => state.count++}>Increment</button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Preact

```jsx
import { useJods } from "jods/preact";
import { store } from "jods";

// Create a store
const counter = store({ count: 0 });

function Counter() {
  // Hook into the store
  const state = useJods(counter);

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Count: {state.count}</p>
      <button onClick={() => state.count++}>Increment</button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Store

Creates a reactive store that can be directly mutated.

```js
import { store } from "jods";

const user = store({
  firstName: "Burt",
  lastName: "Macklin",
});

// Direct property access & mutation
console.log(user.firstName); // "Burt"
user.firstName = "Agent";
```

#### Implementation Details

The store uses a signal-based implementation for fine-grained reactivity:

- Each property in the store is backed by a signal (read/write pair)
- Subscribers only re-run when properties they actually access change
- Property dependencies are tracked automatically when subscribers run
- Updates only notify the subscribers that depend on the changed properties
- Adding new properties dynamically is fully supported

#### Subscription Behavior

```js
// Subscribe to changes in the store
const unsubscribe = store.subscribe((state) => {
  // This function runs once immediately when subscribed
  // to track which properties you access
  console.log("Current count:", state.count);

  // Then it will run again only when those properties change
});

// Later, stop receiving updates
unsubscribe();
```

The `subscribe` function automatically:

1. Tracks which properties are accessed during the subscriber function
2. Only notifies your subscriber when those specific properties change
3. Re-tracks dependencies each time your function runs (for dynamic dependencies)
4. Treats subscribers that don't access any properties as global subscribers

For more details on the reactivity system, see the [Fine-grained Reactivity](/fine-grained-reactivity) page.

#### API

```ts
function store<T extends Record<string, any>>(initialState: T): T & Store<T>;

interface Store<T> {
  getState(): T;
  setState(partial: Partial<T>): void;
  subscribe(subscriber: (state: T) => void): () => void;
}
```

#### Methods

| Method              | Description                                                    |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `getState()`        | Returns the current state object                               |
| `setState(partial)` | Updates multiple properties at once                            |
| `subscribe(fn)`     | Subscribes to state changes with automatic dependency tracking |

```

```

Commit message:

refine unsubscribe functionality in store; enhance documentation to clarify subscriber removal process and memory management, and update tests to validate unsubscribe behavior and state change notifications.

docs/docs/api-reference.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# API Reference

jods provides a small but powerful API for state management.

## Core Functions

### `store(initialState)`

Creates a reactive store with the provided initial state.

```js
import { store } from "jods";

const counter = store({ count: 0 });
console.log(counter.count); // 0

counter.count = 1; // Updates the store
console.log(counter.count); // 1
```

### `json(store)`

Returns a deep-cloned plain JSON snapshot of the store, evaluating all computed properties.

```js
import { store, json, computed } from "jods";

const user = store({
  firstName: "John",
  lastName: "Doe",
});

// Add a computed property
user.fullName = computed(() => `${user.firstName} ${user.lastName}`);

// Get a JSON snapshot
const snapshot = json(user);
console.log(snapshot);
// { firstName: 'John', lastName: 'Doe', fullName: 'John Doe' }
```

### `onUpdate(store, callback)`

Registers a callback function that is triggered whenever the store changes.

```js
import { store, onUpdate } from "jods";

const counter = store({ count: 0 });

// Subscribe to changes
const unsubscribe = onUpdate(counter, (newState) => {
  console.log("New state:", newState);
});

counter.count = 1; // Logs: New state: { count: 1 }

// To stop listening for updates
unsubscribe();
```

### `computed(fn)`

Creates a computed property that automatically updates when its dependencies change.

```js
import { store, computed } from "jods";

const prices = store({
  items: [10, 20, 30],
});

// Add a computed property
prices.total = computed(() =>
  prices.items.reduce((sum, price) => sum + price, 0)
);

console.log(prices.total()); // 60

// Update the items
prices.items.push(40);
console.log(prices.total()); // 100
```

### `diff(oldState, newState)`

Generates a detailed diff object showing changes between two states.

```js
import { store, diff } from "jods";

const before = store({ name: "John", age: 30 });
const after = store({ name: "John", age: 31 });

const changes = diff(before, after);
console.log(changes);
// { age: { __old: 30, __new: 31 } }
```

### `history(store, options?)`

Creates a history tracker with time-travel capabilities for a store.

```js
import { store, history, json } from "jods";

const counter = store({ count: 0 });
const counterHistory = history(counter);

// Make some changes
counter.count = 1;
counter.count = 2;

// Travel back in time
counterHistory.travelTo(0);
console.log(json(counter)); // { count: 0 }

// Move forward
counterHistory.forward();
console.log(json(counter)); // { count: 1 }
```

For more details on time-travel debugging, see the [Time-Travel Debugging](/time-travel-debugging) page.

## Framework Integration

### React

```jsx
import { useJods } from "jods/react";
import { store } from "jods";

// Create a store
const counter = store({ count: 0 });

function Counter() {
  // Hook into the store
  const state = useJods(counter);

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Count: {state.count}</p>
      <button onClick={() => state.count++}>Increment</button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Preact

```jsx
import { useJods } from "jods/preact";
import { store } from "jods";

// Create a store
const counter = store({ count: 0 });

function Counter() {
  // Hook into the store
  const state = useJods(counter);

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Count: {state.count}</p>
      <button onClick={() => state.count++}>Increment</button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Store

Creates a reactive store that can be directly mutated.

```js
import { store } from "jods";

const user = store({
  firstName: "Burt",
  lastName: "Macklin",
});

// Direct property access & mutation
console.log(user.firstName); // "Burt"
user.firstName = "Agent";
```

#### Implementation Details

The store uses a signal-based implementation for fine-grained reactivity:

- Each property in the store is backed by a signal (read/write pair)
- Subscribers only re-run when properties they actually access change
- Property dependencies are tracked automatically when subscribers run
- Updates only notify the subscribers that depend on the changed properties
- Adding new properties dynamically is fully supported

#### Subscription Behavior

```js
// Subscribe to changes in the store
const unsubscribe = store.subscribe((state) => {
  // This function runs once immediately when subscribed
  // to track which properties you access
  console.log("Current count:", state.count);

  // Then it will run again only when those properties change
});

// Later, stop receiving updates
unsubscribe();
```

The `subscribe` function automatically:

1. Tracks which properties are accessed during the subscriber function
2. Only notifies your subscriber when those specific properties change
3. Re-tracks dependencies each time your function runs (for dynamic dependencies)
4. Treats subscribers that don't access any properties as global subscribers

When calling `unsubscribe()`:

1. The subscriber is immediately removed from all internal tracking maps
2. All signal-level subscriptions are properly cleaned up
3. The subscriber will never be called again for any state changes
4. All references are removed, preventing memory leaks

For more details on the reactivity system, see the [Fine-grained Reactivity](/fine-grained-reactivity) page.

#### API

```ts
function store<T extends Record<string, any>>(initialState: T): T & Store<T>;

interface Store<T> {
  getState(): T;
  setState(partial: Partial<T>): void;
  subscribe(subscriber: (state: T) => void): () => void;
}
```

#### Methods

| Method              | Description                                                    |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `getState()`        | Returns the current state object                               |
| `setState(partial)` | Updates multiple properties at once                            |
| `subscribe(fn)`     | Subscribes to state changes with automatic dependency tracking |

```

```
