docs/docs/maintainers-guide.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# 🛠️ Maintainer's Guide 🐿️ 🦆

This guide outlines all the places that need to be updated when adding a new feature to jods.

## ✅ Checklist for Adding New Features

When adding a new feature to jods, make sure to update all of these components:

### 🧩 1. Core Implementation

- [ ] Add the feature implementation in `src/`
- [ ] Export the feature in `src/index.ts`
- [ ] Add type definitions for the feature

### 🧪 2. Testing

- [ ] Add unit tests in `src/__tests__/`
- [ ] Update existing tests if the feature changes current behavior

### 📚 3. Documentation

- [ ] Update the README.md:

  - Add the feature to the "Features" section
  - Add the feature to the "API" section
  - Add an example if appropriate
  - Update the Roadmap section if the feature was listed there

- [ ] Update or create documentation pages:
  - Add a dedicated documentation page for significant features
  - Update the API reference page
  - Add examples showing the feature in action

### 💡 4. Examples

- [ ] Add an example file in the `examples/` directory
- [ ] Ensure the example is well-commented and shows best practices

### 🔌 5. Framework Integration

If the feature interacts with frameworks:

- [ ] Update React integration in `src/react/` ⚛️
- [ ] Update Preact integration in `src/preact/` ⚡️
- [ ] Update Remix integration in `src/remix/` 💿
- [ ] Add examples showing framework integration

## ⚠️ Common Gotchas

- When adding a new export, make sure it's included in both ESM and CJS builds
- Don't forget to update TypeScript types and interfaces
- Keep the bundle size minimal - consider whether the feature should be in the core or a separate module

## 🌐 Documentation Site Updates

After making local changes to the documentation:

1. Run the development server to test locally:

   ```bash
   pnpm run docs:dev
   ```

2. The GitHub Action will automatically deploy the updated docs when changes are pushed to the main branch.

## 🔢 Version Bumping

When ready to release a new version:

1. Update the version in `package.json`
2. Update the CHANGELOG.md file
3. Tag the release in git
4. Publish to npm

# 📋 jods Feature Implementation Rule

You're helping add a new feature to jods (JavaScript Object Dynamics System 🐿️ 🦆), a minimal reactive state library. When implementing a new feature:

## 📝 Required Updates

1. Add core implementation in src/ directory
2. Export the feature from src/index.ts
3. Add TypeScript types & interfaces
4. Add tests in src/**tests**/
5. Update README.md:
   - Features section
   - API section
   - Examples (if applicable)
   - Update roadmap
6. Add documentation:
   - Create dedicated markdown page for significant features
   - Update API reference
7. Add examples in examples/ directory
8. For framework integration:
   - Update src/react/ ⚛️ (if applicable)
   - Update src/preact/ ⚡️ (if applicable)
   - Update src/remix/ 💿 (if applicable)

## 🎨 Style Guidelines

- Keep core functionality small and focused
- Maintain zero dependencies
- Follow existing patterns for reactivity
- Make sure types are comprehensive
- Examples should be well-commented
- Tests should cover edge cases

Follow the existing maintainers-guide.md for complete details.

Commit message:

Add Emoji Standards Guide to documentation for consistent emoji usage
Create a new document outlining standardized emoji usage across jods documentation and code. This guide aims to enhance visual language consistency and improve recognition of concepts. Additionally, update the Maintainers Guide to reference the new Emoji Standards Guide for better adherence to emoji usage practices.

docs/docs/maintainers-guide.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# 🛠️ Maintainer's Guide 🐿️ 🦆

This guide outlines all the places that need to be updated when adding a new feature to jods.

## ✅ Checklist for Adding New Features

When adding a new feature to jods, make sure to update all of these components:

### 🧩 1. Core Implementation

- [ ] Add the feature implementation in `src/`
- [ ] Export the feature in `src/index.ts`
- [ ] Add type definitions for the feature

### 🧪 2. Testing

- [ ] Add unit tests in `src/__tests__/`
- [ ] Update existing tests if the feature changes current behavior

### 📚 3. Documentation

- [ ] Update the README.md:

  - Add the feature to the "Features" section
  - Add the feature to the "API" section
  - Add an example if appropriate
  - Update the Roadmap section if the feature was listed there

- [ ] Update or create documentation pages:
  - Add a dedicated documentation page for significant features
  - Update the API reference page
  - Add examples showing the feature in action
  - Follow the [Emoji Standards Guide](./emoji-standards) for consistent emoji usage

### 💡 4. Examples

- [ ] Add an example file in the `examples/` directory
- [ ] Ensure the example is well-commented and shows best practices

### 🔌 5. Framework Integration

If the feature interacts with frameworks:

- [ ] Update React integration in `src/react/` ⚛️
- [ ] Update Preact integration in `src/preact/` ⚡️
- [ ] Update Remix integration in `src/remix/` 💿
- [ ] Add examples showing framework integration

## ⚠️ Common Gotchas

- When adding a new export, make sure it's included in both ESM and CJS builds
- Don't forget to update TypeScript types and interfaces
- Keep the bundle size minimal - consider whether the feature should be in the core or a separate module

## 🌐 Documentation Site Updates

After making local changes to the documentation:

1. Run the development server to test locally:

   ```bash
   pnpm run docs:dev
   ```

2. The GitHub Action will automatically deploy the updated docs when changes are pushed to the main branch.

## 🔢 Version Bumping

When ready to release a new version:

1. Update the version in `package.json`
2. Update the CHANGELOG.md file
3. Tag the release in git
4. Publish to npm

# 📋 jods Feature Implementation Rule

You're helping add a new feature to jods (JavaScript Object Dynamics System 🐿️ 🦆), a minimal reactive state library. When implementing a new feature:

## 📝 Required Updates

1. Add core implementation in src/ directory
2. Export the feature from src/index.ts
3. Add TypeScript types & interfaces
4. Add tests in src/**tests**/
5. Update README.md:
   - Features section
   - API section
   - Examples (if applicable)
   - Update roadmap
6. Add documentation:
   - Create dedicated markdown page for significant features
   - Update API reference
7. Add examples in examples/ directory
8. For framework integration:
   - Update src/react/ ⚛️ (if applicable)
   - Update src/preact/ ⚡️ (if applicable)
   - Update src/remix/ 💿 (if applicable)

## 🎨 Style Guidelines

- Keep core functionality small and focused
- Maintain zero dependencies
- Follow existing patterns for reactivity
- Make sure types are comprehensive
- Examples should be well-commented
- Tests should cover edge cases

Follow the existing maintainers-guide.md for complete details.
