CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to jods

Thank you for your interest in contributing to jods! This document provides guidelines and instructions for contributing.

## Code of Conduct

By participating in this project, you agree to maintain a respectful and inclusive environment for everyone.

## How to Contribute

### Reporting Bugs

If you find a bug, please create an issue with:

1. A clear title and description
2. Steps to reproduce the bug
3. Expected behavior
4. Actual behavior
5. Any relevant information about your environment

### Suggesting Enhancements

We welcome suggestions for enhancements. Please create an issue with:

1. A clear title and description
2. As much detail as possible about the proposed enhancement
3. Any relevant examples or use cases

### Pull Requests

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix
3. Make your changes
4. Run tests if available
5. Submit a pull request

#### Pull Request Guidelines

- Keep your changes focused and related to a single issue
- Follow the existing code style
- Include tests if applicable
- Update documentation as needed
- Provide a clear description of the changes in your PR

## Development Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/jods.git
cd jods

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run tests
npm test
```

## License

By contributing to jods, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the project's MIT License.

Commit message:

Update CONTRIBUTING.md to include clear guidelines for reporting bugs, discussing code, submitting fixes, proposing features, and becoming a maintainer, enhancing transparency in the contribution process. Also, improve the 'About' section in about.md by adding emojis for better visual engagement.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to jods

Thank you for your interest in contributing to jods! This document provides guidelines and instructions for contributing.

## Code of Conduct

By participating in this project, you agree to maintain a respectful and inclusive environment for everyone.

## How to Contribute

We love your input! We want to make contributing to jods as easy and transparent as possible, whether it's:

- [Reporting a bug](https://github.com/clamstew/jods/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&projects=&template=bug_report.md&title=%5BBUG%5D+)
- [Discussing the current state of the code](https://github.com/clamstew/jods/issues/new?assignees=&labels=discussion&projects=&template=code_discussion.md&title=%5BDISCUSSION%5D+)
- [Submitting a fix](https://github.com/clamstew/jods/issues/new?assignees=&labels=fix&projects=&template=submit_fix.md&title=%5BFIX%5D+)
- [Proposing new features](https://github.com/clamstew/jods/issues/new?assignees=&labels=enhancement&projects=&template=feature_request.md&title=%5BFEATURE%5D+)
- Becoming a maintainer

We use GitHub to host code, to track issues and feature requests, as well as accept pull requests.

### Reporting Bugs

If you find a bug, please create an issue with:

1. A clear title and description
2. Steps to reproduce the bug
3. Expected behavior
4. Actual behavior
5. Any relevant information about your environment

### Suggesting Enhancements

We welcome suggestions for enhancements. Please create an issue with:

1. A clear title and description
2. As much detail as possible about the proposed enhancement
3. Any relevant examples or use cases

### Pull Requests

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix
3. Make your changes
4. Run tests if available
5. Submit a pull request

#### Pull Request Guidelines

- Keep your changes focused and related to a single issue
- Follow the existing code style
- Include tests if applicable
- Update documentation as needed
- Provide a clear description of the changes in your PR

## Development Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/jods.git
cd jods

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run tests
npm test
```

## License

By contributing to jods, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the project's MIT License.
