docs/scripts/README.md, before:

# Playwright Screenshot Scripts

This directory contains scripts for automated screenshots of the jods documentation site.

## Quick Overview

These scripts handle:

- Full page screenshots
- Component screenshots
- Section screenshots using content-based selection and CSS selectors

## 📚 Documentation

For complete documentation on the screenshot system, please refer to the [Playwright Screenshots](../docs/playwright-screenshots.md) guide in the docs directory.

## Available Scripts

- `screenshot-selectors.mjs` - Unified selectors registry for all components
- `screenshot-unified.mjs` - Consolidated screenshot script with multiple modes (RECOMMENDED)

## Unified Screenshot Approach

The unified approach uses a consolidated architecture:

1. **Unified Selectors Registry** (`screenshot-selectors.mjs`)

   - Contains all component definitions in one place
   - Includes helper functions for finding specific elements
   - Exports utility functions for working with component definitions

2. **Unified Screenshot Script** (`screenshot-unified.mjs`)

   - Supports different modes to capture different sets of components
   - Uses consistent padding, naming, and screenshot logic
   - Handles special cases like framework tabs and Remix section
   - Produces more consistent output

3. **Single Output Directory**
   - All screenshots are saved to `docs/static/screenshots/unified/`
   - Consistent naming format: `component-name-theme[-timestamp].png`

### Recommended Usage

When running screenshot scripts:

```bash
# From docs directory
pnpm screenshot:unified            # All components
pnpm screenshot:unified:sections   # Just homepage sections
pnpm screenshot:unified:remix      # Just Remix section

# From root directory
pnpm docs:screenshot:unified
pnpm docs:screenshot:unified:sections
pnpm docs:screenshot:unified:remix
```

## How It Works

The unified approach:

1. **Defining Components**

   - Components are defined in `screenshot-selectors.mjs`
   - Each component has a name, selector, and other properties
   - Special handling for complex cases like framework tabs

2. **Taking Screenshots**
   - The unified script loads component definitions
   - Navigates to the appropriate page for each component
   - Locates elements using CSS selectors and fallback strategies
   - Captures screenshots in both light and dark modes

## Adding New Screenshot Features

When adding new screenshot capabilities:

1. Update the component definitions in `screenshot-selectors.mjs`
2. Add npm scripts to package.json if needed
3. Update the documentation in `docs/docs/playwright-screenshots.md`

## Troubleshooting

If screenshots aren't capturing the right sections:

1. Check the component definitions in `screenshot-selectors.mjs`
2. Verify the selectors are still valid for the current page structure
3. Run with debug mode for detailed logging: `DEBUG=true pnpm screenshot:unified`

Commit message:

Enhance unified screenshot approach with improved selector strategies and new assets
Refine the unified screenshot scripts by introducing alternative selectors for better element targeting and triangulation. Update the documentation to reflect these changes and improve clarity on the unified approach. Add new screenshot assets for various sections in both light and dark themes, ensuring visual consistency and accuracy across the documentation.

docs/scripts/README.md, after:

# Playwright Screenshot Scripts

This directory contains scripts for automated screenshots of the jods documentation site.

## Quick Overview

These scripts handle:

- Full page screenshots
- Component screenshots
- Section screenshots using content-based selection and CSS selectors

## 📚 Documentation

For complete documentation on the screenshot system, please refer to the [Playwright Screenshots](../docs/playwright-screenshots.md) guide in the docs directory.

## Available Scripts

- `screenshot-selectors.mjs` - Unified selectors registry for all components
- `screenshot-unified.mjs` - Consolidated screenshot script with multiple modes (RECOMMENDED)

## Unified Screenshot Approach

The unified screenshot approach consists of:

1. **Unified Selectors Registry** (`screenshot-selectors.mjs`)

   - Central registry of all components and sections
   - Includes primary selectors and multiple alternative selectors for triangulation
   - Provides fallback strategies for each component
   - Includes optional test IDs

2. **Unified Screenshot Script** (`screenshot-unified.mjs`)

   - Supports multiple modes (all, components, sections, remix)
   - Uses triangulation of multiple elements for more reliable section capture
   - Uses consistent padding, naming, and screenshot logic
   - Supports both light and dark themes
   - Handles complex components like tabbed interfaces

3. **Single Output Directory**
   - All screenshots are saved to `docs/static/screenshots/unified/`
   - Consistent naming format: `component-name-theme[-timestamp].png`

### Recommended Usage

When running screenshot scripts:

```bash
# From docs directory
pnpm screenshot:unified            # All components
pnpm screenshot:unified:sections   # Just homepage sections
pnpm screenshot:unified:remix      # Just Remix section

# From root directory
pnpm docs:screenshot:unified
pnpm docs:screenshot:unified:sections
pnpm docs:screenshot:unified:remix
```

## How It Works

The unified approach:

1. **Defining Components**

   - Components are defined in `screenshot-selectors.mjs`
   - Each component has a name, selector, and other properties
   - Special handling for complex cases like framework tabs

2. **Taking Screenshots**
   - The unified script loads component definitions
   - Navigates to the appropriate page for each component
   - Locates elements using CSS selectors and fallback strategies
   - Captures screenshots in both light and dark modes

## Adding New Screenshot Features

When adding new screenshot capabilities:

1. Update the component definitions in `screenshot-selectors.mjs`
2. Add npm scripts to package.json if needed
3. Update the documentation in `docs/docs/playwright-screenshots.md`

## Troubleshooting

If screenshots aren't capturing the right sections:

1. Check the component definitions in `screenshot-selectors.mjs`
2. Add more specific alternative selectors to help with triangulation
3. Run with debug mode for detailed logging: `DEBUG=true pnpm screenshot:unified`
